## Yule Moreau --- 2608

Sharing a commune with so many of my favorite people in the world was never meant to stifle my panamory, and with Adil's bravado and Shiloh's eagerness wrapped tightly around my heart, I only find myself *more *addicted to connection. It is less seeming and more just true that every few years I have stumbled into some lovely stranger who grew on me either meteorically or painstakingly. Some last, some don't; I am happy either way.

So my dates are flippant; *I'm* flippant! A morning coffee still in my pajamas, voices echoing off the walls of my apartment while I find some dayclothes, a stroll down the quiet paths below, a stop at some vendor parked there beside the road-- all of this to help a new friend learn all about me, and for me to learn about them in turn. All of this unhurried-yet-scrambling nonsense as excited children running circles around exhausted parents because it is what is most important for someone to know before we explore continuity.

Here I have Caelyn, who tells me they are part of a commune themself, and also Canadian --- whatever that means in this last century of dissolution --- and who also describes themself as a demiwoman. Their stories all come in *theys* and *thems*, though, and I find myself erring on the side of caution here. That is a conversation to have when we are not choking on our second drink snickering at Opal's expense-- who is there too, by the way, flanking me.

She presses pathetically on my shoulder, shaking her head with all the fuss due of a divebombing wingwoman. "Every time she takes me out with someone, Cae-- she *always* does this! It's such a chore to look after our Yule. If I did not know better--"

"You don't!"

"--I'd-- Shut *up!"* She paws at me again, pushing hard enough I have to brace myself against the counter. "If I did not know better I'd think she did it just to make us all look like the world's most childish polycule."

I'm too busy giggling to retort, rubbing at my sore cheeks; lots of smiles today, but Caelyn has this idle smirk on their face, the sort that tells me we've struck gold.

Does this remind you of someone, Cae? Are you thinking about a story you heard once of somebody who has since become dear? Tell me, tell me: Why do you hide behind that polite mask? I've already brought you into my home, torn a shirt off with little more than a half-open door between us while I changed. Haven't I worked *so* hard to tell you that you needn't guard yourself, needn't obscure yourself?

"Does Yule speak for all of you?"

Who are you talking to? Who is that question for?

"No, no, we're more of a gestalt." Opal waves a dismissive paw, roping her arm around my shoulders.

The gesture draws a contented sigh out of me; her warmth on my skin and mind alike draw me up out of my whirlwind of thoughts. *Yes, Yule; for whom?* I gently chide myself, to which Opal offers a gentle wink.

"Oh!" our new friend starts, sitting upright. "How did *that* happen?"

I glance at Opal, wicked grin on my face. "Oh, that would be *my* fault," I answer, turning my eyes back to Caelyn. "I drew in each of them one-by-one, and when I had my fill I sprung my trap!" I bring my hands up to pantomime the gesture, snapping quickly enough my nails audibly tap together. "It was all Nabi's idea, mind, except it was Arthur who proposed we actually *do* it. Iris was the one who first pointed out that it was right up our alley, but Hadi was the one who wanted to cement our romance into something more visceral--."

"Oh my *gods*, Yule, *breathe!"*

I slip off my glasses, leaning up under her snout. "Is puppy sick of hearing me talk?" I tease.

She just snorts.

Caelyn's smile catches my eye. "I am beginning to see how you managed to bring together so many. Yule, you remind me of our Trevor. He's like a magnet that flips between coalescence and compersion --- like you just did --- gobbling up everyone's attention and then throwing it at someone else."

Like *I* just did? Am I seen? Am I being perceived? Or has Cae only intellectualized some ad-libbed banter?

Opal stares at me with a lopsided grin. She's crossed her arms. "Oh, *did* she, now?" she wonders aloud.

"Oh, yes. I think so, at least. And it was *very* cute."

"In that case, it went entirely according to plan!" I say with a wink. "Now, Caelyn, you were excited by our being a gestalt; did you expect otherwise?"

"No, no, I just haven't met any before."

"Wait, *really?"* Opal leans forward, resting her paw on my head. "How did you pull *that* off?"

Caelyn raises their hands, chuckling. "Oh! I just don't get out much, I suppose. Ours is a demi-union, and I guess we just ended up making friends with other folks like that." They run a hand through their hair, futilely tucking some of it behind their ear. "I mean, to be honest, it seems like it would be kind of hard to manage. Society can afford to run on consensus, but how do you all coordinate *identity* in real-time?"

Opal and I exchange glances, some silent comparison of gut reactions deciding that she answer. "It's a skill, right? We each have to find the boundary between ourselves and our communities lest we turn into a half-assed collective."

"We haven't delegated portfolios to one another," I add, "so we vote with our feet instead. Sometimes that means we aren't on the same page, but we'll get there eventually."

Caelyn ponders that for a moment, covering for their silence with a sip of their drink. "That sounds extraordinarily liberating. I've sometimes considered disconnecting from the others for a while, if only to remember what it's like to see the world through my own senses alone."

They pause, but the look on their face keeps us waiting. "I think I'd still come out the other end feeling more like them than myself, though. I'm not sure it would accomplish much of anything." Chuckling punctuates their words.

"I mean, you can't be part of a commune for very long and not be changed by it," Opal opines. "But, like-- I used to be quite the stone dom before meeting Yule, and then her whole gremlin bit was just too fun; I couldn't *not* play tit-for-tat with her, and now even if we broke up *tonight*, I'd probably still carry this more egalitarian approach to intimacy that I picked up during my relationship with her."

She ruffles my hair a bit, making it quite difficult for me to get my glasses back on. "I think nothing really changed in that respect, that we always have and ever will be changed by our relationships with others," I explain.

Opal squints at me.

I wink back.

"*I?"* Caelyn echoes.

"We. She." Opal's laughter accompanies my words. "I mean, both of us *do* think that, to be clear."

"What did that feel like?"

"Slipping up like that?" I shrug when they nod, fiddling with the handle of my empty mug. "It felt like knowing where she was going with that train of thought because I was thinking the same thing. Except half the words hadn't come out of her mouth yet. Because we don't compartmentalize or harmonize or anything fancy like that, it just happens sometimes."

"That sounds a little like ego-death, doesn't it? Or at least, well, ego-erosion?" They wave a hand.

Opal straightens up, rubbing at my shoulders. "It's part of the deal, isn't it? That we will be so eroded? That's *why* we came together, to become closer, to know one another more deeply than words or touch or time can allow. Wasn't it always inevitable that we might be changed in the process?"

Caelyn's face betrays some discomfort, so I ask, "Is your commune not also a polycule?"

"*No,*" she answers emphatically. "It isn't. We're just journalists working on a project together."

Their reply catches me off guard; we came together out of love, Caelyn and I are here on a scheduled date, and some part of me took for granted that our communes might end up with some overlap. Instead, I'm learning about a completely different approach to connection from my own, and I feel my assumptions exposed.

It is quite embarrassing, but a gentle nudge from Opal reminds me that only seven people in the world can see right through me so readily. "What kind of project?" she asks, breaking the tension. "How does forming a commune help?"

"We are making a kind of research documentary about the intersection between anarchism and culture. Everyone has their roles in terms of expertise, sure, but there are less obvious ways in which we each have our strengths and weaknesses. We made a demi-union to make a best-of-five-worlds sort of situation, but it turned into five specialists instead."

"So, the *opposite* of what you intended?" I tease.

They chuckle. "I mean, yes! But it is working out well for us. Trevor is still great at talking, and I'm still good at details, but now I have his eye for social cues and he has my deliberate style of thinking. Do you have overlap like that?"

"Why, Opal got her charm from me, obviously."

"What I got from *you* was being an insufferable braggart, nerd."

"You're welcome!"

Opal reaches for my nape, pinching enough to bunch my skin up just shy of painful. "You're not wearing a collar," she notes. "How am I supposed to leash you if you're not wearing a collar?"

"*You're* the dog h--*chrp!"*
