## Nabi Min --- 2602

Communes aren't exactly *new*; ours is hardly one of the first ones. But they're also not *normative*. Even other queer folks give us a strange look now and then. And I don't *blame* them! It sounds like some kind of Silicon Valley startup, linking your mind with your lovers'. *Commune, Inc.* Disgusting, right?

But that's the nuance people keep missing: the technology that makes communes work comes from the same technology that broke up the borders of the world decades ago; they were invented by queer anarchists using anarcho-queer technology. We can go wherever we please; and so my cohort decided we'd go into each others' minds.

It's certainly more pleasant than this grass. It's that weird kind of grass that is greener than it has any business being, trimmed so short that it leaves little cuts in my skin that will probably itch for the rest of the afternoon. It's *incredibly* aristo-American wasteland, but it's also in this wide open space with a clear blue sky overhead. I'm also not a fan of how wet it is in B.C., but early spring is sunny enough.

And there's Leni here, this classmate of mine who put out an open invitation for folks like me to come sit in for an interview. They're working on some kind of research project, and the excuse to talk about myself is too good to pass up. But also I'm pretty sure when they chose this topic they were thinking about me in particular, so *maybe* there was a sense of friendly obligation.

Leni's a bit of a waif, a bit of a forest fairy vibe, hair in a bob swept over to the side that would veer perilously Karen were it not for the alternating blue-green-teal palette they've dyed in some sort of weird ombre. They are short precisely one flower crown, but then, they *are* an art student.

"So, uh...hey," they say, dropping their bag unceremoniously beside them and rummaging in it to pull out a rather scrungly looking notepad, a yellow legal pad that's been knocked to shit and scribbled all over. "Thanks again for agreeing to this. I know it's not, like...the greatest spot, but at least it's got some green, right?"

They fuss with their pen --- something far nicer than might be implied by such a notepad --- and draw a line across a page below what must be the previous interview and scribble 'Nabi' beneath it. "So, like...this is just for a project on how different types of communes work with art in their own ways. I picked it up for my tech-and-the-arts--" she slurs like it's just one word, "--course that I'm not doing so hot in, but I figure if I'm going to talk to anyone about it, it's going to be you, hmm?"

"I mean, I'm more tech than arts, but sure," I say, brushing off my hands and shifting to get more comfortable. "I didn't realize you were having such a hard time; what's going on?"

They dot their pen's nib against the paper a few times, a nervous sort of tapping while they think through their reply. "Well, I guess it's just the whole coming from a family who was well-meaning enough but also just completely baffled by...well, everything, you know? They tried. Hell, *I* tried, but tech is hardly my strong suit, so I figure this'll be a good way for me to kind of catch up." Their expression veers into a hopeful smile. "Know what I mean? Maybe this'll be a good interview *and* help me pick up a little more."

"Well, just as long as you don't mind me spending the next two hours spitting out a dissertation speculating about the black swan implications of queering the getting-from-point-A-to-point-B industry." Yule's banter leaves a grin on my face. Everyone's a nerd about *some*thing. She likes fantasy, Leni's probably into neo-psychedelia or furry comics. I like new stuff; stuff people can't even imagine yet. I like things that change *everything* to such a degree that imagining a world before is a real feat of self-awareness.

They laugh in some mix of relief and nervousness. "Well, I mean, maybe at the end, but right now, I need a primer or something, like a...well, let me back up a bit and focus on the project, since that's the part I'll be presenting on. I picked "how do different types of communes work with art" as the topic, but what I really want to know is how, like...artistic taste is influenced by others in the commune. You're, uh...or do I say "you all are"? You all are a gestalt, right? How would that be different from a union? Or a demi-gestalt?"

"Les Joyaux is a gestalt, yeah," I answer, folding my legs under me to draw myself up out of that Yule headspace I fell into. Back straight, deep breath-- A little mindfulness to bring *me* back into focus. "Gestalts are connected down here," I go on, pounding my chest. Then, tapping my temple, I grin. "Unions are up here. Simple as that, honestly. Demi-gestalts are weird because they're still a subconscious linkage, but it's a lot more somatic. There're also demi-unions, which are kind of the opposite; they're a synchrony of higher-order parts of your minds, but are a lot *less* somatic than other unions."

That was a lot of jargon, obviously, and my grin turns rueful. "Hadi once described it as a continuum from heart, to hale, to habit, to head."

Leni scribbles along with my words as best they can for a few moments before wincing and starting to just jot down concepts. That they're taking notes at all rather than recording feels a bit anachronistic, but whatever. "I guess that makes sense. You are connected with feelings and such, I guess? As opposed to thoughts? So, if one of you starts to feel really strongly, then...then all of you can pick up on that, maybe? Am I getting that right?"

"Mhm. There's more to it than that, because over time that *affects* you, but there's definitely this live sort of hyper-empathy. Once, Adil was having a real hard time with one of his drafting projects, and I had to cut him off for a few minutes so I didn't lose my shit half a mile away for no reason." Snickering at the memory, I cross my arms. "Opal calmed him down, 'cause she's good at that kind of thing, but I would've just made it worse. It's hard to compartmentalize."

There's a moment's silence but for the scratching of pen against paper, frown growing steadily. *Okay, Nabi,* I think.

"So wait, did you know anything about the drafting project, then? Did you pick up on any of that? Or was it just the...uh, frustration, maybe? The frustration that you were picking up on?" They look briefly to the sky as if that's where they'd find the words they're looking for. "I'm not sure where the boundary is between the different classes, I guess, or if it's more of a spectrum."

"Well, I guess you can have more than one kind of linkage with the same commune, but we're too new to all this to try. We're *just* a gestalt, so I didn't know *why* Adil was upset, just that it felt like him and that it felt like wanting to smash stuff for no reason. I learned the story later when he messaged everybody to apologize for the surprise adrenaline rush."

"You can tell who, then?" they ask, then laugh, shaking their head. "I mean, I guess that'd make sense, or you'd just have a bunch of anonymous emotions floating around and no one would know where they came from."

"Well, it's not really automatic. You just start to get a feel for it, y'know? Like people's voices, or their faces. I can recognize Adil's emotions because he's got that bombastic kind of swagger going on. I know when Yule's up to no good because everything she does begins and ends with me smirking. Hadi just makes me want to write a goddamn novel about whatever it is she's feeling. Does that make sense?"

They nod vigorously. "Yep! At least, I think so. Actually sounds pretty cool. Makes me wonder if that'd help me actually understand why my sister's so crazy all the time," they say, laughing. "Oh! Right, questions. So...hmm. Have you noticed your taste in any kind of art changing since you've joined? Doesn't just have to be visual art. It could be music, or performance, or even architecture." This comes with a vague gesture around us, behind us at the building.

"Adil's an architect, actually, so it's funny you bring that up." I wink at them, then look up at the the library, the campus itself. I spend a long moment taking it in, letting the avant-garde blandness of it wash over me, through my cohort, and back again. Shiloh smiles at the brightness and warmth I feel, but Adil just seems confused because I'm thinking about him; he isn't sure what to make of the sensation, and soon enough he's calling me.

So I slide out my compact and set it on the grass between us. There's his face on the screen, turned away with only the occasional glance. "What is the matter, Nabi?" he asks. "Who's this?"

"That's Leni. They're interviewing us."

Leni waves, almost shyly, saying, "I'm doing a project on how different communes engage with art, and I wanted to interview some folks I actually knew. Uh... hi though!"

"Ah! I see you have conscripted me, Min." He chuckles, sets his work aside, and lends us his undivided attention.

"No spoilers," I say, lifting my nose a little. "Just tell them what you thought I was feeling."

He scrunches up his brow and leans back in his chair. His arms are crossed, and I have to avert my eyes; I really don't need to distract him with my imagining him hugging me. I look to Leni instead, then again to the front of the university.

"It felt like a cloud moved out from over you, and so you were blushing with energy." Suddenly, I know I've been had. I look down at the screen, and the smirk on his face confirms it before the words come out of his mouth. "And now you are thinking about coming home to me. You are outside; at the campus?" The binary sensation lights up on his face almost as soon as he asks. "Oh! Yes, at the campus. What do I win?"

Leni looks more confused than anything, looking from me to the library and main campus building. "I didn't think you'd like--" they start, then they look back down to the compact. "Oh! Oh. You're in a relationship, though, right? Like, all of you are, I mean. I've heard that's common, at least."

"For gestalts, anyways." I smother the compact's screen so Adil stops making distracting faces at me, earning a bout of laughter from him. "I wasn't in a relationship with Adil until after he joined us; I think he was Hadi's ex before?" I lift my hand off, glancing down at him.

He nods, leaning forward again. "*Before*. We have since worked things out. She did not consent at first, so we spent a few months working through what this might look like. Opal is quite convincing when she wants to be; Hadi and I were hardly *angry* with one another in any case." Adil shrugs, then adds, "Leni, we are full of youth, and most of us fell in love with someone in Les Joyaux before joining it; but this is not how every commune moves through the world. Many do, especially gestalts, but there *are* numerous exceptions."

They nod, looking *far* more interested in this than the chat about architecture. Clearly the feeling type, rather than the thinking type. Feel first, think later, that sort of thing. "Alright, yeah, I can see that. Probably still some reasons for people to share like gestalts do without necessarily just being polycules. Oh! But yeah, I should probably still do my interview. I know you also kinda got roped in, but you knew we were at the campus? Did you get a sense of how they felt about the architecture?"

"Architecture--?"

"Leni! Spoilers!" I tease, snickering.

They look frankly befuddled. "Oh, but I...uh. Oh," they laugh, looking sheepish. "There's a reason I'm not so good at this."

"I had no idea they were thinking about *architecture*. Now I understand why Nabi was thinking about me." He looks to me with an accusatory glare. "Am I a game to you?"

"Yes?" I retort, raising my palms up. "*Duh?*"

He snorts, crossing his arms on the table just out of frame. "Well, that explains the warmth and brightness; Emily Carr has a very airy palette. It's named after a painter who was frankly rather orientalist; the designers sought to recreate her habit of cubism and idylls. It seems, even after three restorations, they were successful."

Leni winces. "Ugh, yeah. This was close to where I've been doing a lot of work. It's got a bit of a garbage history --- they kept trying to rehabilitate her, then failing, then trying again --- but the library still has a ton of research I've been leaning on. Hard to work out the differences in my head sometimes." They shake their head as though to clear clouds of irrelevant thoughts. It doesn't seem to work. "Like, I really don't get why they just leaned *harder* into-- But whatever. Say, while you're here, though, have *you* noticed any changes in the way you engage with art? Like, have you started appreciating different aesthetics and such after becoming a part of Les Joyaux? Or lost interest in any?"

The soft smile on Adil's face isn't his; it looks more like Opal's or Hadi's. "I am the newest of us, actually. I have only had a couple years to get used to all of this; I am also the eldest, but I feel like a child all over again! I think I have learned to better appreciate words --- so many of our cohort are latent poets; entirely unsurprising, considering this all began with her --- or perhaps grown fonder of silly sunny things."

He glances at me, something hard to see given the screen but easy enough to feel. "That *must* be you, Min."

"You have me confused for Iris!" I quip, shaking my head. "*She* is the one who wants to live in some solarpunk dream world. *I* wanted us all dressed in black and walking around like trench coats were cool again!"

Leni laughs, jotting down a bit of notes throughout the banter. "I mean, I don't think I could pull off a trench coat, but that's still a really cool aesthetic." They jot this down, too, for some reason, before continuing. "One thing I noticed from a union I interviewed was that there was a lot of selection bias with this sort of thing. Like, of course there was, I mean. They all wanted to be interested in the same sort of thing, so they sought out others who were, too. I guess there's still some of that with gestalts, too, huh? A lot of the people you'd wind up liking still share interests."

Adil and I exchange another glance, this one a rippling sort of conversation had entirely in a second. Our thoughts flood the commune with pangs of recognition, drawing noses out of books and turning heads all over the city. The sensation isn't quite intentional --- it's that sort of thing that stumbles out of you before you have time to realize what it is you've done --- but by the time it's over, the whole of Les Joyaux is smiling with resonance.

We turn to them with the sort of synchrony only a commune can muster without rehearsal, and I reply, "We're hedonists, poets, and hopeless romantics. We're activists and architects and artists, too. Our name's a pun-- we're jewels; we're joy. I think we all love life in our own way."

